#summary Core modules and libraries needed to run Blur code

= What is it? =

The BlurCore is a series of installers that'll install the base libraries and code needed to run all other blur modules.  These include:

== Python ==

==== What is Python? ====

Python is a powerful scripting language that is both fast and flexible.  To run Blur code, you will need to download and install python onto your box.  Currently, we use Python24 for x32 bit python/applications and Python26 for x64 bit python/applications.

==== Additional Info ====

 * Learn more about Python: [http://www.python.org]
 * Download Python24 (x32): [http://www.python.org/download/releases/2.4.6/]
 * Download Python26 (x64): [http://www.python.org/download/releases/2.6.3/]

== Qt ==

==== What is Qt? ====

Qt is a powerful programming framework developed by Trolltech (now ownded by Nokia).  It is a cross-platform framework that allows a programmer to easily develop for all the major operating systems without having to change any code.

Its also completely open-source under the LGPL license, allowing you to easily get started coding in a standard, elegant way.

We are currently using Qt 4.5 from Nokia.

==== Why do I need Blur's installer? ====

Our installers will create our own compiled Qt Dll's in the c:/blur/common folder.  You will need these libraries if you want to run the Blur packages, but they are not full Qt installs.  They don't replace out any default Qt installations, and it is recommended for developers (not needed in distribution) to download the open-source Qt development set.  We use the Qt Designer for almost all of our graphics as its the fastest and easiest way to abstract the Model from the View.

==== Additional Info ====

 * Learn more about Qt: [http://qt.nokia.com/]
 * Download Qt: [http://qt.nokia.com/downloads]
 * Download Blur Dlls: [http://code.google.com/p/blur-dev/downloads/list]

== PyQt ==

==== What is PyQt? ====

PyQt is the pythonic bindings to the Qt framework - opening up all that amazing power of Qt to the Python language.  With it, we're able to keep developing cross-platform applications, but with the speed and ease that Python offers. 

==== Why do I need Blur's installer? ====

We have made our own compilation of PyQt that you will need to run in conjunction with our Dll's (we have x32 and x64 bit versions)

==== Additional Info ====

 * Learn more about PyQt: [http://www.riverbankcomputing.co.uk/news]
 * Download Blur PyQt: [http://code.google.com/p/blur-dev/downloads/list]

== Blur Libs ==

==== What are the Blur Libs? ====

These are common libraries that we have developed that are used across multiple applications in the studio.  They'll be installed into the c:/blur/common folder and accessed by most of our applications, which may or may not be used or needed depending on the additional modules and packages you download.

==== What libraries are included? ===

 * LibStone    -- Database connectivity and management
 * LibClasses  -- Base C++ Database model for the Blur Studio database

==== Additional Info ====

 * Download Blur Libs: [http://code.google.com/p/blur-dev/downloads/list]

== Blur Python ==

==== What is the Blur Python? ====

Blur Python is a site package that is treated as the root starting point for all blur python scripts.  It connects to the general management system for the studio and initializes all the base import paths for additional libraries, modules and packages not installed into the python site-packages.

This also contains the wingui package which utilizes the PyQt binding of the QtWinMigrate module to allow the connection of PyQt into any MFC application.

This will be installed into your [PYTHON_PATH]/Lib/site-packages/blur folder.

==== Additional Info ====

 * Download Blur Python: [http://code.google.com/p/blur-dev/downloads/list]

== Where to from here? ==

Once you have installed and are running all the prerequisites for the BlurCore packages, you can decide what additional tools, scripts and packages you wish to run.

 * Py3dsMax
 * PySoftimage

 * AssBurner
 * AssFreezer
 * TraX

 * Blur3dsMax
 * BlurSoftimage