#summary Tools and Workgroup designed for Autodesk | Softimage
#labels Documentation,Softimage,XSI

== Prerequisites ==
 # *Autodesk| Softimage* (http://www.softimage.com/)
 # *Python* (http://www.python.org)
  * *Q: What is Python?*
  * *A:* Python is a free, powerful scripting language commonly used in 3d production.  We've decided to use it here at Blur for the basis of most of our scripts and tools and has become an integral part of our pipeline
  * *Q: What version do I need?*
  * *A:* Depending on the installer you choose, you will need different versions.  Mostly, we've been using *Python24* to date, but will be upgrading soon to Python26 & Python26_64 for x64 bit support.  Simply match the version name on the installer to the python version you need (if the installer says python24, you will need Python 2.4, etc.)
  * *Q: Where can I get it?*
  * *A:* You can download or see python at its webpage at http://www.python.org/download, but here is a short cut to the links you'll need now:
   * [http://www.python.org/ftp/python/2.4.4/python-2.4.4.msi Python 2.4 (windows)]
 # *win32 python packages*
  * *Q: What are the win32 python packages?*
  * *A:* This is a free python package that provides access to Windows functionality.  It is needed by Softimage to run Python, as well as our blur code calls methods from it as well.
  * *Q: Where can I get them?*
  * *A:* You can download them from source forge [http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=78018&package_id=79063 here].  Simply choose the build that corresponds with your version of python.

== Installation ==
 # Make sure you have *Autodesk | Softimage* and *Python* installed on your machine
 # Go to the *[http://code.google.com/p/blur-dev/downloads downloads]* page and select the latest installer for the python version you want.
 # Run the installer, this will install code in a variety of places
 # Once you have run the installer, startup Softimage
 # Go to *File->Plugin Manager*, click on *Workgroups*, then *Connect...*
 # This will bring up a folder picker, navigate to the blur Workgroup in *c:/blur/dev/offline/code/maxscript/treegrunt/XSIWorkgroup* (make sure you are actually *IN* the XSIWorkgroup folder when you select it, otherwise you'll get errors)
 # If everything is installed correctly, you should receive no errors on the connect, and you should see a Blur menu at the top of your Softimage session.  Just click that to bring up the *TreeGrunt* utility, and you're all connected to the Blur Softimage Toolset!

== Production Tools ==

The Production Tools are the scripts that are specifically designed to push shots and assets through our pipeline here at Blur.  They may be useful for people outside the studio, but their main use is for pipeline specific needs here - feel free to browse and use, but they may not work for you unless you have installed the full studio toolset.

 * *BlurBuildShot* - _Generate shots based on layout assets_
 * *BlurCachePreview* - _Submits a preview up to the farm_
 * *BlurCacheTool* - _Exports out Point Cache & Transform cache information_
 * *BlurImporter* - _Import assets from the network_
 * *BlurRenamer* - _Rename objects within the scene based on the Blur naming convention_
 * *NotificationManager* - _Register for notifications on changes to your shots_
 * *TreeGrunt* - _Access all the scripts available on the network_
 * *blurOpenScene* - _Handles proper opening and onloading of models to the scene_
 * *blurRender_Submit* - _Submit the scene to the farm for rendering_

== General Use Tools ==

The General Use Tools section is more general artist utilities.  Some of these tools are pipeline specific, but most should be just useful scripts to help an artist get their work done.  Since we use Softimage only for Rigging & Animation here, the tools for Softimage are mostly written with those two departments in mind.