#summary Tools and Libraries designed for Autodesk | 3dsMax
#labels Documentation,Autodesk,3dsMax

== Prerequisites ==

 * You will need *[BlurCore]*
 * You will need *Python*
 * You will need *Autodesk | 3dsMax* ([http://www.autodesk.com/3dsmax])

== What is it? ==

These are various tools and utilities developed over the years to speed up the creation of creative content using 3d Studio Max.

== What versions does it support? ==

Currently, we are supporting:

  * Python24 (x32)
  * Python26 (x64)
  * Autodesk|3dsMax (x32 & x64)
     * max9
     * max2008 (as max10)
     * max2009

== How do I get it? ==

 # Download and install [BlurCore]
 # Download and install Blur3dsMax from [http://code.google.com/p/blur-dev/downloads/list]
 # Once you have run the installer, startup 3dsMax
 # Go to your *Customize->Customize User Inteface*
 # To add a Keyboard map, stay in Keyboard, to create a Toolbar, go to Toolbars
 # All the default User-Macros are found under the *Blur Grunt Macros* category
 # You should map the *TreeGrunt* tool to either a hotkey or toolbar, as that is the root tool to run all others.
 # Start playing away!

== How Does it Work? ==

=== Production Tools ===

The Production Tools are the scripts that are specifically designed to push shots and assets through our pipeline here at Blur.  They may be useful for people outside the studio, but their main use is for pipeline specific needs here - feel free to browse and use, but they may not work for you unless you have installed the full studio toolset.

 * *blurSelectByName* - _selection window with renaming using blur's naming convention_
 * *Element Storm* - _beta level node-based system for managing scene states (requires 3rd-Party Heliumn 3dsMax controller)_
 * *Quick Name* - _simple renaming using fast C++ algorithm from BlurDLX.dlx, renames thousands of objects in milliseconds_
 * *Render Elements* - _render Pass/Element tools to save and load scene states_
 * *TreeGrunt* - _access all the scripts available on the network_
 * *the Onion* - _a helper used to add some advanced features to layer and scene management_

=== General Use Tools ====

The General Use Tools section is more general artist utilities.  Some of these tools are pipeline specific, but most should be just useful scripts to help an artist get their work done.

=== Libraries ===

We've also developed a few DLL libraries over the years that we are willing to share.  Here are a list of the current ones available in the Blur3dsMax packages.

 * *blurDLX.dlx* - _maxscript utility methods designed for tools developers_
 * *TransformCache.dlc* - _cache controller that works at the transform level instead of the vertex level - good for working with non-deforming objects (much lighter than PointCache)_