#summary Currently Known Issues in the Installers

We've been getting a lot of interest for these installers, so we decided to put them on here even though they are still beta and not 100% complete.

We'll address the issues on here ASAP, but until then, they'll contain the fixes that you'll need to get the system running.

This page has the workarounds for the known issues, if you run into an issue and have a workaround for it, feel free to add it as a comment at the bottom so others can know how to fix their installs and we'll get to it ASAP.  If you're running into an issue that you can't figure out, feel free to add an issue to the project that we can look into.  Thanks!


=== Deprecated Downloads ===

I deprecated the BlurTools downloads until I fix the installer - those are confusing a lot of people.  I'll have them back up this afternoon.

=== Installation Paths ===

We are currently working on our installers, but right now, they are hardcoded install locations:

 * Python 24 x32: c:/python24
 * Python 26 x64: c:/python26_64

 * 3dsMax 9    x32: c:/max9
 * 3dsMax 9    x64: c:/max9_64
 * 3dsMax 2008 x32: c:/max10
 * 3dsMax 2008 x64: c:/max10_64
 * 3dsMax 2009 x32: c:/max2009
 * 3dsMax 2009 x64: c:/max2009_64

If your local paths don't match these, then you will need to move the installed files to wherever they should be on your computer.  We'll be updating the installers soon.

=== New Script, Open Script, Run Script Broken from Menu ===

If you experience this, you'll see an error

{{{
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<string>", line 1, in <module>
AttributeError: 'QApplication' object has no attribute 'openScript'
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<string>", line 1, in <module>
AttributeError: 'QApplication' object has no attribute 'newScript'
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<string>", line 1, in <module>
AttributeError: 'QApplication' object has no attribute 'runScript'
}}}

To Fix:

Edit - MAX_PATH/scripts/startup/__init__.py:

Replace all calls to blur.wingui.app with blur.wingui

{{{
blur.wingui.app.newScript()
}}}
to
{{{
blur.wingui.newScript()
}}}

*If you see this error*

{{{ 
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "C:\Python26\lib\site-packages\blur\wingui\__init__.py", line 83, in openScript
    fileName = str( QFileDialog.getOpenFileName( PyQWinHook.core, 'Open Script File', LAST_FILENAME, 'Python Files (*.py);;All Files (*.*)' ) )
NameError: global name 'PyQWinHook' is not defined
}}}

Open your PYTHON_PATH/lib/site-packages/blur/wingui/__init__.py file, simply replace all calls that look like:

{{{ PyQWinHook.core }}}

with

{{{ core }}}

And that should solve your problem!