#summary Working with the Py3dsMax module
#labels Python,3dsMax,Tutorial

== Accessing 3dsMax Values ==

So, now that we know a little bit about the basic differences and similarities between MAXScript and Python as languages...how do we work with Python and 3dsMax together?

Depending on your Python knowledge, you may need to jump over to some "Python basics" tutorials, as these next tutorials start assuming you know some basics of Python.

The blurPython dll generates a Py3dsMax python module from which you can access basic 3dsMax values and methods.  The main one you'll be working with is the mxs submodule:

{{{
from Py3dsMax import mxs
}}}

=== What is the mxs module? ===

The mxs module is literally a connection into the MAXScript globals hash table of C++.  When you call globals in MAXScript through code or the listener, it can be accessed through the mxs module in Python.

*Maxscript Globals Examples*
{{{
/* some examples of global variables available in maxscript */
s = Sphere name:"Test"        /* create a sphere - note optional parameters */
getNodeByName "Test"          /* call the getNodeByName method - note no ()'s */

/* collect all spheres into an array */
spheres = for obj in objects if isKindOf obj Sphere collect obj
}}}

*Python Globals Examples*
{{{
from Py3dsMax import mxs

# some examples of global variables available in python
s = mxs.Sphere( name = 'Test' )  # create a sphere - note optional parameters
mxs.getNodeByName( "Test" )      # call the getNodeByName method - note the ()'s

# collect the spheres into a list
spheres = [ obj for obj in mxs.objects if mxs.isKindOf( obj, mxs.Sphere ) ]
}}}

=== Accessing Variable Properties ===

So, you can access anything from the globals table in python as you can in MAXScript.  But now how do you access local properties from a global variable?  The blurPython plugin will automatically convert any standard variable type from MAXScript to Python (integer to int, string to str, etc.) but any other variable type (complex Value types - Sphere, Polygon, Point3, etc.) is wrapped into a Python object container.

So this way, whatever you can access of a maxscript variable, you can access with a python variable, just like the hash table.

*Maxscript Local Variables*
{{{
s = Sphere()        /* create a sphere */
s.name = "Test"     /* set the name */
s.radius = 100      /* set the radius */
s.pos = [20,20,20]  /* set the position to a point3 */
}}}

*Python Local Variables - Close, but not Quite*
{{{
from Py3dsMax import mxs

s = mxs.Sphere()    # create a sphere
s.name = 'Test'     # set the name
s.radius = 100      # set the radius
s.pos = [20,20,20]  # set the position to a ... list?
}}}

If you just ran the above code - you'll notice that a couple things didn't turn out the way you were expecting.  Why?

A couple reasons:
 * In Maxscript, every line inherently calls a refresh to the scene, unless you disable the scene redraw, in Python - the scene won't refresh automatically.
 * In Maxscript, typing [[20,20,20]] creates a Point3 value instance.  In Python, typing [[20,20,20]] creates a list with 3 items.  Obviously, you cannot set a sphere's location to a list.

*So..wait...can Python do everything that MAXScript can do then?*

It sure can, this tutorial simply highlights that there will be slight differences between the two systems.  Below is the proper way to map the above example from Maxscript to Python.

*Python Local Variables - Proper Python Conversion*
{{{
from Py3dsMax import mxs

s = mxs.Sphere()              # create a sphere
s.name = 'Test'               # set the name
s.radius = 100                # set the radius
s.pos = mxs.Point3(20,20,20)  # set the position to a Point3
mxs.redrawViews()             # update the scene to reflect the position & radius changes
}}}

=== Next Topic ===

[Py3dsMaxTutDiffs Maxscript/Python Differences ]