#summary Integration of Python and PyQt into 3d Studio Max

== Prerequisites ==

 * You will need *[BlurCore]*
 * You will need *Python*
 * You will need *Autodesk | Softimage* ([http://www.softimage.com])

 * You will need *win32 python packages* (required for XSI: download [http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=78018&package_id=79063 here])

 * You will need to setup *Python as the Scripting Language of XSI*
  * *Q: I have installed the Blur software, but it still does not show up in XSI, why?*
  * *A:* You need to make sure that XSI can see the Python scripting language and has it set as its language of choice...follow [http://softimage.wiki.softimage.com/index.php/Python_(XSISDK) this XSISDK link] for a tutorial on setting up Python for XSI.
  * *Q: I am still getting errors running python, why?*
  * *A: * You may need to uninstall your [PYTHON_PAH]\lib\site-packages\win32com\client\gen_py folder (as described [http://softimage.wiki.softimage.com/index.php/Python_(XSISDK)#Errors_after_re-installation here])


== What is it? ==

Here at Blur we've developed a way to integrate the PyQt PyQt framework to allow development of Qt applications instead of default Softimage GUI development.  This allows for much faster and more robust tools applications to tie together production.

== What versions does it support? ==

Currently, we are supporting:

  * Python24 (x32)
  * Python26 (x64)
  * Autodesk | Softimage
  * Softimage| XSI

== How do I get it? ==

 # Download and install [BlurCore]
 # Download and install PySoftimage from [http://code.google.com/p/blur-dev/downloads/list]
 # Startup Softimage
 # Go to the *Plugin Manager...* and connect to the workgroup in *c:/blur/dev/offsite/workgroups/xsi_all*
 # This will register a plugin adding xsi_all/data/site-packages to the sys.path to allow for softimage/workgroup specific global packages to be saved and imported
 # This will also connect to the PySoftimage package (located in xsi_all/data/site-packages), exposing common global calls to the package itself, and connecting Softimage callbacks with PyQt SIGNALs
 # You should also see Python as a menu option in your main window, with the option to create New, Open or Run existing scripts, as well as launch a PyQt based Python Logger window
 # You should now be setup with PyQt and be ready to code!

== How Does it Work? ==